README.md, before:

---
languages: javascript
tags: math, oo
---

# Luhn
## Getting Started

Run `npm install`

## Tests

Run `grunt watch` then edit your files. Grunt will watch for changes. Grunt
will only run tests that start with `it`. When you finish passing a test,
remove the `x` from `xit` to convert it to a runnable test.

## Background

The Luhn formula is a simple checksum formula used to validate a variety of identification numbers, such as credit card numbers and Canadian Social Insurance Numbers.

The formula verifies a number against its included check digit, which is usually appended to a partial number to generate the full number. This number must pass the following test:

- Counting from rightmost digit (which is the check digit) and moving left, double the value of every second digit.
- For any digits that thus become 10 or more, subtract 9 from the result.
  - 1111 becomes 2121.
  - 8763 becomes 7733 (from 2×6=12 → 12-9=3 and 2×8=16 → 16-9=7).
- Add all these digits together.
  - 1111 becomes 2121 sums as 2+1+2+1 to give a check digit of 6.
  - 8763 becomes 7733, and 7+7+3+3 is 20.

If the total ends in 0 (put another way, if the total modulus 10 is congruent to 0), then the number is valid according to the Luhn formula; else it is not valid. So, 1111 is not valid (as shown above, it comes out to 6), while 8763 is valid (as shown above, it comes out to 20).

Write a program that, given a number

- Can check if it is valid per the Luhn formula.
  - This should treat, for example, "2323 2005 7766 3554" as valid.
- Can add a check digit to make the number valid per the Luhn formula.
  - This should give "2323 2005 7766 3554" in response to "2323 2005 7766 355".

Commit message:

added readme, package.json, and empty luhn.js file

README.md, after:

---
languages: javascript
tags: math, oo
---

# Luhn
## Getting Started

Run `npm install`

## Tests

Review the `luhn.js` file inside the `lib` directory, and then the `luhn.spec.js` file inside the `spec` directory. Review each of the tests, and then start implementing your solutions to make each test pass in `luhn.js`.

Run `grunt watch` then edit your files. Grunt will watch for changes. Grunt
will only run tests that start with `it`. When you finish passing a test,
remove the `x` from `xit` to convert it to a runnable test.

## Background

The Luhn formula is a simple checksum formula used to validate a variety of identification numbers, such as credit card numbers and Canadian Social Insurance Numbers.

The formula verifies a number against its included check digit, which is usually appended to a partial number to generate the full number. This number must pass the following test:

- Counting from rightmost digit (which is the check digit) and moving left, double the value of every second digit.
- For any digits that thus become 10 or more, subtract 9 from the result.
  - 1111 becomes 2121.
  - 8763 becomes 7733 (from 2×6=12 → 12-9=3 and 2×8=16 → 16-9=7).
- Add all these digits together.
  - 1111 becomes 2121 sums as 2+1+2+1 to give a check digit of 6.
  - 8763 becomes 7733, and 7+7+3+3 is 20.

If the total ends in 0 (put another way, if the total modulus 10 is congruent to 0), then the number is valid according to the Luhn formula; else it is not valid. So, 1111 is not valid (as shown above, it comes out to 6), while 8763 is valid (as shown above, it comes out to 20).

Write a program that, given a number

- Can check if it is valid per the Luhn formula.
  - This should treat, for example, "2323 2005 7766 3554" as valid.
- Can add a check digit to make the number valid per the Luhn formula.
  - This should give "2323 2005 7766 3554" in response to "2323 2005 7766 355".
